External ADPKD datasets
Single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) datasets (GSE185948) from human ADPKD kidneys [2] were accessed via the Kidney Interactive Transcriptomics platform (https://humphreyslab.com/SingleCell/). DEGs filtered by differential analyses were performed as described in the original publication (logFC ≥ 0.25, FDR ≤ 0.05). DEGs in either proximal tubule 1 (PT1), proximal tubule 2 (PT2), and connecting tubule and principal cells (CNT_PT) clusters was obtained from source data of [2], for investigation of PAX2 and PAX8 gene expression and integration with PAX2 and PAX8 downstream genes.
In addition, microarray data (GSE7869) comparing human ADPKD cysts and minimal cystic tissues were analysed using GEO2R. Probes without assigned gene symbols were excluded. Probes matched multiple gene symbols were also removed. In cases where the same gene symbol was linked to multiple probes showing opposite expression changes in ADPKD (i.e., some with log2FC > 0 and others with log2FC < 0), that gene was excluded from further analysis. Unique gene symbols for DEGs with FDR ≤ 0.05 were filtered to generate final gene lists for further comparison.
DEGs from PAX knockdowns were generated by GSE305691 using DESeq2 (v1.44.0) with the design formula ~ batch + condition. Significant differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were defined as those with Benjamini–Hochberg adjusted p-values (False Discovery Rate, FDR) ≤ 0.05.

Visualizations were generated using ggplot2 (v3.5.1), GseaVis (v0.0.5), UpSetR (v1.4.0), VennDiagram (v1.7.3), and pheatmap (v1.0.12).

